# Synthetic Data

The synthetic dataset, i.e. fake brain-like data, were generated for 9 different b-values (0, 1, 3, 6, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 ms/um2) and with 32 repetitions for each b-values.

This folder contains:
### 1. A synthetic dataset (i.e. fake brain-like dataset)

Files:
- SyntheticData.mat
- SyntheticData^X^^^DWS_b9_nsa32_raw_act.SPAR/.SDAT
- nifti/synthetic.nii.gz  


The data was generated by:
1. generating FIDs for brain metabolites using Matlab routines for the STEAM sequence,  
(TE=45ms, TM=60ms, npoints 1024, spectral width 3000Hz, 7 tesla)
2. combining FIDs using a weighted sum, based on concentrations and T2 values from the litterature,
3. applying an attenuation factor to mimic signal attenuation due to diffusion-weighting,
4. adding a macromolecule baseline with a specific attenuation factor for each b-values,
5. adding a water residual with a specific attenuation factor for each b-values,
6. applying line-broadening,
7. adding random noise for each repetitions and b-values,
8. adding a frequency and phase drift for each repetitions and b-values.
      
The data are saved in:
- .mat format as a matrix with dimension [npoints(1024),b-values(9),averages(32)]
- philips format (.SPAR/SDAT) with the array saved as follows: [(av1,b1),(av1,b2),...,(av1,b9),(av2,b1),(av2,b2),...,(av2,b9),...(av32,b1),(av32,b2),...,(av32,b9)].  
- NIfTI-MRS format. The data uses two higher dimensions (after the first three spatial and the 4th time dimension). The 5th dimension is used to store averages and the 6th to store the incrementing b-values.
  
### 2. A synthetic dataset without noise or drift.
Generated as above with only steps 1 to 6.
Files:
- OriginalData.mat
- OriginalData^X^^^DWS_b9_nsa32_raw_act.SPAR/.SDAT,
- nifti/original.nii.gz  

The data are saved in:
- .mat format as a matrix with dimension [npoints(1024),b-values(9),averages(32)]
- philips format (.SPAR/SDAT) with the array saved as follows: [(av1,b1),(av1,b2),...,(av1,b9),(av2,b1),(av2,b2),...,(av2,b9),...(av32,b1),(av32,b2),...,(av32,b9)].  
- NIfTI-MRS format. The data uses two higher dimensions (after the first three spatial and the 4th time dimension). The 5th dimension is used to store averages and the 6th to store the incrementing b-values.

      
### 3. A basis-set to fit the data in LCModel or other preferred software.  
   *basis_STEAM_TE45_TM60.BASIS*
      
### 4. An LCModel control file which provides a starting point.  
   *synthetic.control*  
   Feel free to adapt to your preferred settings,  
   e.g. you can omit the MM baseline included in the basis-set (chomit(X)='Mac') and use LCModel own MMs (nsimul=1/remove any omit on MM09/20/... peaks)
    

 
